And now is the time to wrap up this module.
So what did you learn in this module?
Well,
the first point was why is the Reflection API considered slow by many people?
Now you need to be a little worried about that because,
in fact, performance needs to be measured,
and it needs to be measured, not on your development computer,
but really in production.
And most of the time,
performance issues in business applications do not come from the Reflection API,
and it is useless to try to optimize things if the
performance issues you may have in your business application
do not come from the Reflection API, but comes from other places.
Now if you really have performance issues measured in production and that
are really a pain in using your business application,
then you can switch to the MethodHandle API.
It is quite a technical API.
It is probably harder to use than the Reflection API,
but it is much more efficient.
We also saw a little hint on how to use VarHandles.
VarHandles are to be used in a concurrent context.
So if you are not in that context, you can stick with the MethodHandle API.
And since this is the last module of this course, let us quickly wrap it up.
What you saw in this course is, in fact,
two ways to access data from objects and classes using two API,
the Reflection API, which is the historical API from the JDK,
and the MethodHandle API introduced in Java 7 and updated in 8 and 9.
You saw all the technical details you need to understand to use the
Reflection API or the MethodHandle API in your applications.
You saw the two most important applications of the Reflection API.
The first one is Hibernate with the object relational mapping,
and the second one is dependency injection with CDI or Spring.
We talked a little about performances,
and the idea I would like you to keep in mind is that if you do not have
observed performance issues in your business application,
do not try to optimize it.
It is just a waste of time.
You do not need to do that.
But if you have performance issues,
then you can use method handles to fix those issues.
And you also saw a side API to the MethodHandle API called the VarHandle API
if you need to have concurrent access using Reflection.
And that's it for this course.
Thank you so much for watching it.
I hope you found it interesting.
Don't forget that you can use the comments on this course if you have questions.
I check them regularly, so you should have a fast answer.
You can also follow me on Twitter for information in the Java space and
check my GitHub account for more open-source Java content. Thank you, and I hope to see you on another course here on Pluralsight.